# HiCounselor-Project

# About the project:

In this project, you will be working on a real-world dataset of the google play store, one of the most used applications for downloading android apps. This project aims on cleaning the dataset, analyze the given dataset, and mining informational quality insights. This project also involves visualizing the data to better and easily understand trends and different categories.

# The Project will consist of 2 modules:
Module 1: Pre-processing, Analyzing data using Python and SQL.
Module 2: Visualizing data using Power bi.

# Prerequisites for the Project (mandatory):
SQL (MYSQL) 
POWER BI/ Tableau 
Excel 
Python

# Task 1: Pre-processing the data
## Subtask 1: Removing duplicate rows:
## Subtask2: Remove irrelevant values from each column if any:
## Subtask 3: Export the cleaned dataset as a .csv file and prepare the data using excel:
## Subtask 4: Encoding data into suitable format

# Understand the following requirements and query the dataset for displaying the required solution:

Which apps have the highest rating in the given available dataset?

What are the number of installs and reviews for the above apps? Return the apps with the highest reviews to the top.

Which app has the highest number of reviews? Also, mention the number of reviews and category of the app

What is the total amount of revenue generated by the google play store by hosting apps? (Whenever a user buys apps from the google play store, the amount is considered in the revenue)

Which Category of google play store apps has the highest number of installs? also, find out the total number of installs for that particular category.

Which Genre has the most number of published apps?

Provide the list of all games ordered in such a way that the game that has the highest number of installs is displayed on the top (to avoid duplicate results use distinct)

Provide the list of apps that can work on android version 4.0.3 and UP.

How many apps from the given data set are free? Also, provide the number of paid apps.

Which is the best dating app? (Best dating app is the one having the highest number of Reviews) Get the number of reviews having positive sentiment and number of reviews having negative sentiment for the app 10 best foods for you and compare them.

Which comments of ASUS SuperNote have sentiment polarity and sentiment subjectivity both as 1?

Get all the neutral sentiment reviews for the app Abs Training-Burn belly fat

Extract all negative sentiment reviews for Adobe Acrobat Reader with their sentiment polarity and sentiment subjectivity

# Dashboarding

Design a dashboard of your choice and imagination with attractive wallpapers and designs of visuals

The dashboard must consist of basic power bi visuals like stacked bar charts, cards, line charts, pie charts, etc

You can use any visual capable of representing the given dataset.

Columns having numeric data types are to be majorly used in visuals

Include both datasets.
